Beginner SEO terms
You’ve learned the basics of search engine optimization (SEO) and how it works. Now, it’s time to review the SEO terms
you’ve learned and introduce a few more that you’ll learn about later in this course. This glossary will help you become
familiar with some of the beginner SEO terms and definitions you may need to know for an entry-level position in digital marketing or e-commerce.

Bounce rate: The percent of visitors that view one page and then leave the site.

Breadcrumbs: A row of internal links at the top or bottom of the webpage that allows visitors to quickly navigate back to
a previous section or the home page. Also known as a breadcrumb trail.

Broken link: A link that leads to a webpage that no longer exists. For example, the webpage may have been deleted, or the
content may have been moved to a different location.

Crawl: The process of looking for new or updated webpages. Google discovers URLs by following links, by reading sitemaps, and by many other means.

Crawlers: Automated software that crawls (fetches) pages from the web and indexes them.

Domain: The core part of a website’s URL, or internet address. For example, in the URL www.google.com/ads, the domain name is google.com.

Googlebot: The generic name of Google's crawler.

Google knowledge panels: Information boxes that appear on Google when you search for people, places, organizations, or things
that are available in Google’s knowledge database.

Index: Google stores all webpages that it knows about in its index (similar to the index in the back of a book). The index entry
for each page describes the content and location (URL) of that page. 

Keyword: A word, or multiple words, that people use to find information, products, or services online.

Keyword research: The process to find terms and phrases that potential customers are typing into search engines.

Meta description: Provides the search engines a summary of what the page is about. In some situations, this description is used in the snippet shown in search results.

Mobile-friendly: A webpage that is designed to load quickly and render well on a phone screen.

Organic search: Unpaid results a search engine produces when a search is performed.

Rank: A webpage’s position in the search engine results pages (SERPs), which is determined by an algorithm.

Rich results: Enhanced results in Google Search with extra visual or interactive features.

Search algorithm: Automated process that helps locate information to answer a user’s query.

Search engine optimization (SEO): The process of making your site better for search engines.

Search engine results pages (SERPs):The results pages that appear when someone performs a search query.

Sitemap: A file where you provide information about the pages, videos, and other files on your site, and the relationships
between them. Search engines like Google read this file to crawl your site more efficiently.

Structured data: Code used to better describe a webpage’s content to search engines.

Subdomain: The subset of a larger domain used to organize an existing website into a different page URL. Subdomains are usually
found at the beginning of a URL. For example, support.google.com is a subdomain of google.com. 

URL: The address of a webpage or file on the Internet. For example, www.google.com.

Webpage title: Provides users and search engines the topic of a particular page.

404 page: A page that informs the user that the webpage they were trying to visit does not exist.

Key takeaways
We’ve covered a lot of SEO terms, and you’ll be learning more as you progress through the course. This glossary will help you remember
what a word means so that you have a better understanding of how SEO relates to digital marketing and e-commerce. Plus, you’ll be familiar 
with commonly used terms when you start working in a new role.
